README.md, before:

# dll-syringe

[![CI](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/dll-syringe.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/dll-syringe)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/dll-syringe/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/dll-syringe)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/openbytedev/dll-syringe/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/openbytedev/dll-syringe)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/dll-syringe.svg)](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/blob/master/LICENSE)

A windows dll injection library written in Rust.

## Supported scenarios
| Injector Process | Target Process | Supported?                                 |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 32-bit           | 32-bit         | Yes                                        |
| 32-bit           | 64-bit         | No                                         |
| 64-bit           | 32-bit         | Yes (requires feature `into-x86-from-x64`) |
| 64-bit           | 64-bit         | Yes                                        |

## Usage
### Inject & Eject
This crate allows you to inject and eject a DLL into a target process.
The example below will inject and then eject `injection_payload.dll` into the process called "ExampleProcess".

```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

// do something else

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

## Remote Procedure Calls (RPC)
This crate supports two mechanisms for rpc. Both only work one-way for calling exported functions in the target process and are only intended for one-time initialization usage. For extended communication a dedicated rpc library should be used.

|                                  | `RemotePayloadProcedure`         | `RemoteRawProcedure`                                                   |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature                          | `rpc-payload`                    | `rpc-raw`                                                              |
| Argument and Return Requirements | `Serialize + DeserializeOwned`   | `Copy`, Argument size has to be smaller than `usize` in target process |
| Function Definition              | Using macro `payload_procedure!` | Any `extern "system"` or `extern "C"` with `#[no_mangle]`              |

### RemotePayloadProcedure
A rpc mechanism based on [`bincode`](https://crates.io/crates/bincode).
The target procedure must be defined using the `payload_procedure!` macro (requires the `payload-utils` feature).

The definition of an exported `add` function could look like this:
```rust
dll_syringe::payload_procedure! {
    fn add(a: f64, b: f64) -> f64 {
        a + b
    }
}
```

The code of the injector/caller could looks like this:
```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

let remote_add = unsafe { syringe.get_payload_procedure::<fn(f64, f64) -> f64>(injected_payload, "add") }.unwrap().unwrap();
let result = remote_add.call(&2.0, &4.0).unwrap();
println!("{}", result); // prints 6

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

### RemoteRawProcedure
This mechanism is based on dynamically generated assembly code.
The target procedure can be any exported function as long as it uses either the `system` or `C` calling convention.
This means that even Win32 functions can be called directly.

The definition of an exported `add` function could look like this:
```rust
#[no_mangle]
extern "system" fn add(a: f64, b: f64) -> f64 {
    a + b
}
```

The code of the injector/caller could looks like this:
```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

let remote_add = unsafe { syringe.get_raw_procedure::<extern "system" fn(f64, f64) -> f64>(injected_payload, "add") }.unwrap().unwrap();
let result = remote_add.call(2.0, 4.0).unwrap();
println!("{}", result); // prints 6

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

## License
Licensed under MIT license ([LICENSE](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/blob/master/LICENSE) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Instructions for Contributors

### Prerequisites

You will need the nightly toolchains of Rust and Cargo to build/test this project.

```
rustup target add x86_64-pc-windows-msvc --toolchain nightly
rustup target add i686-pc-windows-msvc --toolchain nightly
```

> [!NOTE]
> Also applies to developing on Linux, you'll need it for your IDE (i.e. rust-analyzer or RustRover) to work properly.

### Run Tests

Run the `./scripts/test.ps1` script from PowerShell.

### Running Tests on Linux

You'll need `cargo xwin` to build the MSVC targets on Linux:

```
cargo install cargo-xwin
```

After that, you can run the tests with `./scripts/test-wine.ps1` PowerShell script.
(As opposed to `./scripts/test.ps1`)

Make sure you have Wine installed!

## Attribution
Inspired by [Reloaded.Injector](https://github.com/Reloaded-Project/Reloaded.Injector) from [Sewer](https://github.com/Sewer56).

Commit message:

Added: Disclaimer on Wine Bug #56362

README.md, after:

# dll-syringe

[![CI](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/dll-syringe.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/dll-syringe)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/dll-syringe/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/dll-syringe)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/openbytedev/dll-syringe/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/openbytedev/dll-syringe)
[![MIT](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/dll-syringe.svg)](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/blob/master/LICENSE)

A windows dll injection library written in Rust.

## Supported scenarios

> [!WARNING]
> Although tests currently pass, some uses of 64-bit into 32-bit may potentially fail on 
> Linux (WINE) due to [Wine Bug #56362](https://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=56362).

| Injector Process | Target Process | Supported?                                 |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| 32-bit           | 32-bit         | Yes                                        |
| 32-bit           | 64-bit         | No                                         |
| 64-bit           | 32-bit         | Yes (requires feature `into-x86-from-x64`) |
| 64-bit           | 64-bit         | Yes                                        |

## Usage
### Inject & Eject
This crate allows you to inject and eject a DLL into a target process.
The example below will inject and then eject `injection_payload.dll` into the process called "ExampleProcess".

```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

// do something else

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

## Remote Procedure Calls (RPC)
This crate supports two mechanisms for rpc. Both only work one-way for calling exported functions in the target process and are only intended for one-time initialization usage. For extended communication a dedicated rpc library should be used.

|                                  | `RemotePayloadProcedure`         | `RemoteRawProcedure`                                                   |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature                          | `rpc-payload`                    | `rpc-raw`                                                              |
| Argument and Return Requirements | `Serialize + DeserializeOwned`   | `Copy`, Argument size has to be smaller than `usize` in target process |
| Function Definition              | Using macro `payload_procedure!` | Any `extern "system"` or `extern "C"` with `#[no_mangle]`              |

### RemotePayloadProcedure
A rpc mechanism based on [`bincode`](https://crates.io/crates/bincode).
The target procedure must be defined using the `payload_procedure!` macro (requires the `payload-utils` feature).

The definition of an exported `add` function could look like this:
```rust
dll_syringe::payload_procedure! {
    fn add(a: f64, b: f64) -> f64 {
        a + b
    }
}
```

The code of the injector/caller could looks like this:
```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

let remote_add = unsafe { syringe.get_payload_procedure::<fn(f64, f64) -> f64>(injected_payload, "add") }.unwrap().unwrap();
let result = remote_add.call(&2.0, &4.0).unwrap();
println!("{}", result); // prints 6

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

### RemoteRawProcedure
This mechanism is based on dynamically generated assembly code.
The target procedure can be any exported function as long as it uses either the `system` or `C` calling convention.
This means that even Win32 functions can be called directly.

The definition of an exported `add` function could look like this:
```rust
#[no_mangle]
extern "system" fn add(a: f64, b: f64) -> f64 {
    a + b
}
```

The code of the injector/caller could looks like this:
```rust no_run
use dll_syringe::{Syringe, process::OwnedProcess};

// find target process by name
let target_process = OwnedProcess::find_first_by_name("ExampleProcess").unwrap();

// create a new syringe for the target process
let syringe = Syringe::for_process(target_process);

// inject the payload into the target process
let injected_payload = syringe.inject("injection_payload.dll").unwrap();

let remote_add = unsafe { syringe.get_raw_procedure::<extern "system" fn(f64, f64) -> f64>(injected_payload, "add") }.unwrap().unwrap();
let result = remote_add.call(2.0, 4.0).unwrap();
println!("{}", result); // prints 6

// eject the payload from the target (optional)
syringe.eject(injected_payload).unwrap();
```

## License
Licensed under MIT license ([LICENSE](https://github.com/OpenByteDev/dll-syringe/blob/master/LICENSE) or http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Instructions for Contributors

### Prerequisites

You will need the nightly toolchains of Rust and Cargo to build/test this project.

```
rustup target add x86_64-pc-windows-msvc --toolchain nightly
rustup target add i686-pc-windows-msvc --toolchain nightly
```

> [!NOTE]
> Also applies to developing on Linux, you'll need it for your IDE (i.e. rust-analyzer or RustRover) to work properly.

### Run Tests

Run the `./scripts/test.ps1` script from PowerShell.

### Running Tests on Linux

You'll need `cargo xwin` to build the MSVC targets on Linux:

```
cargo install cargo-xwin
```

After that, you can run the tests with `./scripts/test-wine.ps1` PowerShell script.
(As opposed to `./scripts/test.ps1`)

Make sure you have Wine installed!

## Attribution
Inspired by [Reloaded.Injector](https://github.com/Reloaded-Project/Reloaded.Injector) from [Sewer](https://github.com/Sewer56).
